6:30 PM

So this is my first attempt at building a GUI Rust app.

I have not really used Rust before other than trying a hello world and starting to read through the documentation.

This should be interesting.

The plan is for a little widget thing say 350px wide, 50px tall.

It shows up/sits at the bottom center of the docked monitor.

In it you can pre-configure settings (apps that launch and their position/sizes on the external monitor)

immediate goals are

- make some interface thing
- basic version
  - app name, x/y coordinate, width/height
- more advanced,  use graphics (tiles)

Need to be able to list available apps, store state, run on startup, position self

resting RAM usage of Pinephone Pro is upper 600's eg. above 650 but under 700.

I'm so tired, keep wanting to nod off, not sure why

using this series

https://gtk-rs.org/gtk4-rs/stable/latest/book/project_setup.html

oh damn I forgot about these steps that can take a while

oh yeah an easy task would be to bind a button click to an open vs code command

RAM usage is not bad 1.72G out of 3.78G that's 6 Chromium tabs open, one of them playing music (Sound Cloud).

And VS Code is open. VS Code isn't too bad, seems it uses like I want to say 100MB of RAM, I gotta look into it.

holy crap, struggling to run cargo run lol, getting greedy with 7 Chromium tabs

okay cargo run is compiling the code

yeah... this might not happen, if every compile is 20 minutes

I have a pinebook pro I can try with next week hopefully sooner

Maybe C++ won't be much faster since they both use the same thing... idk

If Rust is like an abstraction around C++ then raw C++ should be faster right? But this glib thing Rust is using... that's what I'm stuck on right now

Guess they're not the same/related

I still intend to learn Rust just so I can check my paranoid boxes off.

Same with Go

So I may just compare the process even if I develop the Rust version on a different computer.

This lag is just brutal 20-30 minutes of waiting... nah g...

right now it's stuck on graphene-rs, gio 109/116

7:03 PM
112/116 gdk4

I'll try C++ after this

https://www.gtk.org/docs/language-bindings/cpp

I at least use C++ for my robotics stuff, just Arduino/Teensy

7:16 PM

hehe it froze

605/608 MB idle, with HTOP open docked

start VS Code goes up to 1.09G or like 400MB

I will run this command/close out Chrome so it goes faster

7:24 PM

yeah this is definitely not gonna fly damn...

building 114/116 gtk4

Jeez... all it says is hello world in the console lmao

great...

wtf I can't load websites hmm

had to reconnect to wifi

damn have to figure out how to getg gtkmm on this phone

https://terminalroot.com/how-to-install-gtkmm-4-on-ubuntu-2204/

ubuntu not mobian but debian related to ubuntu hmm...

wow there are a lot of steps damn

don't have wget nice

big tutorial

https://developer-old.gnome.org/gtkmm-tutorial/stable/index.html

oof  I goofed... need to install this stuff at root or somewhere else not in this repo

I also have to remember to back out after each command

time is what I have, I am broke af... gotta stop buying things, pay off debt

spend my free time learning/building things

damn my Moto G Stylus 2020 feels like a futuristic piece of tech next to the Pinephone Pro lol. Lightness, speed and clarity of display.

but... I'm also not running vs code on it

Need to keep a list of commands I've run

- [x] build-essential
- [x] sigc++
  - needed to install 3.0.0 as well
- [x] acc.umu
- [x] giomm/glibm
- [x] cairomm
- [] pangomm
- [] gtkmm40
- [] 

oh yeah, probably could have better performance not using an SD card but this one isn't a cheapo either

will see how the PBP is with eMMC and 20% faster SoC

with how slow this `CXX regex.lo`... stuff is going I'm concerned

Thinking C++ won't be any faster in terms of compile/development speed

8:11 PM

I'm stuck on these...

```
CXX      bufferedinputstream.lo
CXX      bufferedoutputstream.lo
CXX      cancellable.lo
CXX      charsetconverter.lo
CXX      converter.lo
CXX      converterinputstream.lo
CXX      converteroutputstream.lo
CXX      credentials.lo
CXX      datainputstream.lo
CXX      dataoutputstream.lo
```

Probably possible to flash a mobian image that has all this crap installed on it already with a faster computer

I'm gonna have to let this thing run

OMG it's alphabetical and I'm only in P

arlight cairomm is next

nice done in a couple of minutes

it'll be funny if this doesn't work at all because Mobian != Ubuntu

8:37 PM

alright moment of truth let's compile

well shit, same problem as before

well it doesn't work... keeps saying "not found" whatever executable I try to run... failure

9:00 PM

hold on let me try again

Phosh says it uses GTK3 so I'll try for that

in c? huh

ooh that works

pkg-config stuff

https://askubuntu.com/questions/1352106/package-gtk-3-0-was-not-found-in-the-pkg-config-search-path

10:47 PM

I'm just going to stick with C and GTK since that's what Phosh is written in and I have other projects that use C++
